Problem Set 4: New Release
Please find the new release of PS4: ps4_v5_release.zip Submissions are due Wednesday 12/5 at 11:59 PM, on Gradescope. As a reminder, you have 7 late days, but no submissions will be accepted after Saturday 12/8 at 11:59 PM.

 

 

Updates

 

11/18: New updated assignment.

11/19: [v4] Fixed typo in q4.a (add missing "log" term in the likelihood expression)

11/20: [v5] Fixed typo in q2 (pi(a, x) replaced with the correct pi(s, a)) and a bug in make_zip.py

 

 

As mentioned in @1611, this is an updated problem set. Please note the summary of changes:

 

Q1: Updated to a similar problem (classify MNIST using a CNN, was: using Fully Connected Network)

Q2: Unchanged

Q3: Unchanged

Q4: Updated to a similar problem (ICA using Laplace source and Gaussian source, was: using Logistic source)

Q5: Unchanged

Q6: REMOVED (was: carte pole RL)

 

The updated questions are somewhat similar to the old ones. So any effort already put towards the old questions will not go waste.

 

Note that the submission deadlines still remain the same (Wed 5th Dec, late submission Saturday 8th Dec). Since we have removed a big question (Q6 RL programming), we believe the deadline is very comfortable even for those starting PS4 now.

 

The rest of this announcement is a repeat of the original one (@1553):

 

Please read the following carefully, as we’ve made significant updates to the problem set compared to previous offerings of this course.

 

 

Starter Code

 

This year we have switched to Python for coding parts of assignments. You must use our starter codebase, which is written in Python 3.6+ with mainly numpy and matplotlib libraries only. Under no circumstances will there be any exceptions to this environment.

 

For this assignment, we will be adding one more dependency for one specific subproblem. You will need scipy installed for p4_ica.py for writing out wav files in the provided code. You may not use any functions from scipy in your own code.

 

Details on how to re-create our environment and complete your assignment are provided in README.md file of the zip file.

 

Written Components

 

Our zip file contains starter TeX code for the writeup. Though not mandatory, we strongly suggest you build off of it for your writeup. We include a Makefile for compiling the TeX code locally. However, you may also use an online TeX editor such as Overleaf, in which case you should do the following:

 

1. Unzip the starter code
2. Zip the tex folder
3. When creating a New Project on Overleaf, choose "Upload Project" and upload the zipped tex folder.

 

Submission Instructions

 

There are two assignments on Gradescope: Homework 4 and Homework 4 Code.  The Homework 4 Code gradescope assignment hasn't been created yet but it will be created shortly.

 

Please submit your writeup in PDF form to the Homework 4 assignment, tagging each part separately. Note that some of the coding parts of the homework do not have a corresponding written component, in which case there will be no option for you to tag them.

 

Please submit your code by running make_zip.py and uploading the file submission.zip to the Homework 4 Code assignment. The auto-grader will immediately run your code on the test sets (budget ~ 5-10 minutes) and check that (1) your code runs successfully, and (2) it produces output files of the correct format. You should receive this feedback immediately, for each subpart that involves coding. We then have additional hidden tests to grade the correctness of your submissions, which will be released after the assignment is due. You can submit as many times as you want before the deadline.

 

Collaboration

 

As a reminder, our collaboration policy is the following. While we encourage students to form study groups, each student must write down the solutions independently, and without referring to written notes from the joint session. In addition, each student should write on the problem set the names of people with whom s/he collaborated.

 

Furthermore, we expect students not to copy, refer to, or look at online solutions to our questions in preparing their answers. It is an honor code violation to intentionally refer to a previous year's solutions. 

 

Miscellaneous

 

We've created pinned posts on Piazza to keep discussion for each question organized. Please use these posts to ask for clarifications on the assignment, instead of creating new questions.

 

Any emailed late submissions that miss the hard deadline of Saturday 12/8 at 11:59 PM will not be entertained, even if only by a minute. This is in the interest of being fair to those who took extra care to submit on time.

 

 

We strongly recommend that you start early. Best of luck.

 

- Teaching staff.